We've decided to project our
data layers into the projection
UTM zone 29N. Let's start off
with projecting the sighting
points.
So we're going to bring up the
processing toolbox to find a
tool to project our data.
So make sure you've got this up.
If you don't have it up it's in
the Processing tab and now we
can type in project to see what
tools come up.
So we know it's going to be a
vector tool because we're
working with vector layers.
So let's have a look under the
vector general tools and the
first tool that we can see is
Assign Projection.
So this is what you'd use if
your data layer was missing a
coordinate reference system and
you needed to give it a
projection.
The next one, Define Shape File
Projection does the same thing
as a assign projection but it
generates a new layer with the
new projection whereas the
previous tool doesn't. Find
projection is what you can use
If you don't know what
coordinate reference system your
layer is supposed to be in and
you want to know what
projections it might be, this
tool will help you find some
reference systems that it might
be.
So these aren't the tools that
we need because we want to
change our layers current
coordinate system.
So this is what the reproject
tool is for.
This is going to let us change
our layers existing coordinate
system to a new coordinate
system.
So let's click on this tool to
bring it up.
Our input layer are our points
and now we need to choose what
the new coordinate reference
system is going to be.
So we can click on the globe
icon to the right of target CRS.
And in this selector tool
there's a long list of all the
different coordinate systems.
But what we can do is we can use
the search bar to filter them.
So we'll type in UTM zone 29 N
and here we can see in the top
box it's come up with the one
that we're after.
So we can click on this and
click OK And now this tool is
going to create a new points
layer with this UTM Zone 29 N
projection.
So the last thing we need to do
is choose where to save this new
layer to and what to name it.
So let's go into the three dots
button to the right of where it
says create temporary layer and
we'll choose Save to Geo
package.
And then we want to navigate to
find the Geo package that we set
up for this project.
Click on it and now we can name
our layer, so we'll name it
Projected points.
So it's clear what is the points
layer with the new projection
and then we can run the tool.
So we'll run it and once it's
run we can close this window and
we can see that it's in our
layers list now.
So what we can do is remove the
original sighting points layer
because we don't need this
anymore.
So we'll right click and we will
click remove layer.
So we projected our sighting
points, so now they're in the
right projection that we want.
We're going to do the same with
the Wologizi and Wonegizi
protected areas.
So it's going to be exactly the
same process.
We're going to bring up the
reproject layer tool.
Our input layer here is
Wologizi.
We're going to click on the
globe icon search in UTM zone 29
N Once we have it come up, we
can click on that And now we can
save our layer into our Geo
package.
So we'll go into our Geo package
and name our layer, so we'll
call it projected Wologizi, hit
OK, run the tool and then delete
the original layer.
So remove this the Wologizi
protected area and now for
Wonegizi.
So bring up the reproject layer
tool again.
Make sure your input layer is
Wonegizi protected area.
And we can see now in the box in
the recently used coordinate
reference system box, we can
choose the UTM zone 29 N layer
here.
And now we just need to save it
into our Geo package and name it
as well.
So we'll call it Projected
Wonegizi and hit run and then
remove the original Wonegizi
protected area layer.
So now all of our layers are in
the same projected coordinate
system.
We need to make sure that our
map also is.
So to do this we need to go into
our project properties.
There are two ways to access
this.
We can either click in the very
bottom right of our screen where
it tells us what the current
coordinate system of the map is
this button here, or we can go
into the Project tab and go into
properties.
So once we have our project
properties come up, we want to
go into the tab which is CRS,
and now we can choose the
coordinate system here.
And so again, in the recently
used box, we can see the one
that we want, the UTM Zone 29 N.
So we'll click on this, hit
apply and hit OK And now that's
projected our map.
So that's how to project your
data layers and your map in
QGIS.
So let's just hit save to save
our progress.